hello maths fans welcome to another
episode of maths speed dating
i'm incredibly excited to bring you
another guest my name is mike boyd i
make videos about learning new skills
specifically me learning skills and
actually the reason i'm in oxford in
this
beautiful room right now is because i'm
currently learning to
pass the oxford entrance exam for
mathematics
um and tom's giving me a hand
[Laughter]
he's a good student i think we'll see we
don't know how he's gonna get on yet but
we will see how that goes
if you don't see the video on my channel
about that then it means it never worked
out
so mike has very kindly agreed to take
part in invasive dating well
i don't really know what's involved
that's mainly because he doesn't know
quite what we're gonna do yet so
basically
we have pots of questions um
these are found online on speed dating
websites
all right so don't judge me okay it's
not necessarily things i want to know
we'll see we'll see what comes well i've
not dated in what 12 years
so uh i'm out the loop
i've divided them up into categories
right and you're going to roll the dice
yep
depending on the number you get on the
dice that's where we draw the question
sounds good to me so
one math questions okay so so that was
not from speed dating websites
yeah they're not they're not like solve
this equation it's like
favorite mathematician all right okay
quite interesting yeah yeah
yeah so we'll see where that one goes um
number two
general speed dating questions whatever
that means i forget how i categorize
these
when i did this the four or five is fun
fun fun speed dating question and then
we've got six
the danger part so again i don't really
know what danger means but
you look terrified we'll see what
happens with that i guess
all right here we go i reckon i'm gonna
roll six first time
oh i did you go okay so
i'm gonna draw the questions out but not
because i'm cheating you can like watch
me if you don't believe me but
enough all right i believe okay so
your first question mike what is the
most adventurous thing
you've ever done so one time when i was
when i was 18
um i went to like i went to australia
completely alone
and i got a bus to
a like a rain forest like a couple of
hours outside
outside of sydney um and just went
hiking in the rain forest with
like no map no phone uh and
not telling anyone where i was and uh i
like how adventurous has become
very stupid yeah yeah yeah
and i and i i got completely lost
um and i i genuinely thought it was like
this was the end
um and there was like tree branches
falling because um the type of trees
that
grow in this forest they like shed their
their their uh
the branches as they grow um and i
remember reading about that before i
went it was like be careful don't go off
the beaten
track and i was completely lost uh it's
not adventurous it's just dumb but
that's that's me
that was when i remember feeling like
this is a proper adventure but i hated
it
and i've not been on anything how did
you get out of this situation so it
turns out
the whole time i wasn't lost at all i
was just it was just like quite uh
overgrown path
so eventually i came across some stairs
and was like but the
but the track was huge it was like it
was like 30 kilometers or something
right yeah and i had i don't i don't do
any hiking i was wearing like
like a pair of trainers and i'm going to
say like a flip-flop yeah yeah yeah
i was wearing i was i might as well have
been wearing flip-flops
and i had like i'd like a 500 milliliter
bottle of water with me and
yeah i thought i was going to die um so
yeah that was
that was adventurous i would say awesome
right solid start okay
you called the six yeah yeah yeah i've
now decided you're psychic
i'm cycling next a three okay one for
three so that'll get us a
general right yeah general question oh
five five all right so fun
it's a fun it's a fun one um
i like how fun also kind of hints that
the rest of them are
well one of them's one of them's labeled
maths if a movie was made about your
life
who would you want to play you see
who doesn't have to look like it doesn't
have to listen just follow like free
slate
pic pick who you think would do a good
job of being you in a movie
i'm thinking like 1980s
arnold schwarzenegger
brilliant okay please uh
elaborate on why 1980's arnold
schwarzenegger so
so that's when he was at his biggest i
think yeah yeah um
and that's when his accent was at its
worst you know i've been working out
and uh and he is my he is my idol
so okay all right yeah great answer
great answer
right there we go next right um i i
think we should we need a maths question
so a one or two right
yeah it's quite fun having questions
asked
about you it's like yeah you can really
indulge in yourself and just
uh okay i i again i think you're gonna
like this one uh
what is the favorite video you've made
so far
on your channel um
i think the the favorite video
we made were uh the one where i swam
across a river
um because it was genuinely the hardest
thing
i've done and it was like a really big
river yeah i mean it was a it's a mile
white
so yeah yeah so when you say river
yeah i know i suppose you could just
paddle across no it's like an
estuary and it's tidal um
so you kind of have to swim in like a um
a quadratic shape
no you have to you have to swim in this
curve uh and there's like jellyfish and
there was dolphins and seals in there
and it was just a
it was just a really scary experience to
wear like a suit like that so no
no wetsuit okay so just speedos yeah
they were actually i think they were
actually mid no they might be made by
adidas but
there were speedos um so yeah that that
was like
that was the most i've ever seen
going from like nothing to to actually
having some competence in summit
because uh it was the cold that you had
i had to deal with
yeah um yeah so i was just it was just
um
i was just waking up every morning and
going swimming in the sea with no
wetsuit on um and it would get easier
yeah yeah like uh yeah really it got to
the point where
i was in uh
water that was nine degrees and i was
just swimming around
like not shivering and i was fine what's
like if i went into the sea today
like so if if the sea was 15 degrees
like it would be like a shock when you
went in
but you would but you would recover but
if it was like
12 degrees you would you would
hyperventilate but like when you're in
the mediterranean
if it was 20 degrees that's when you
would like want to be swimming in the
in the sea okay yeah so nine is nine is
like well your
your fridge is five so yeah so yeah
yeah yeah yeah it's getting cold right
over there yeah so it's almost enough to
preserve food
yeah um wow okay so that's called yeah
so i was proud of that yeah i was really
happy with that video awesome
all right let's uh let's have another
one right i really we've not had a math
one so you have to roll the one to get
mad
yeah three three another uh another
general right
the production quality here is it's off
the chart
are you complaining they are actually
matching jam jars so
what do you like to do most in your free
time
um so right now i'm quite into
music i go through phases of being into
music and i don't mean like listening to
music i mean like uh
messing around with keyboards and
synthesizers and guitars and stuff so
as in like you play several instruments
like well i have a keyboard
that can make several different sounds
it does it does have that yeah but no i
have a
i have like a a really big sample
library so i can i can be like a
like a gregorian um
choir right uh yeah or it can be or i
could be a flu
or do you like to like release this
stuff that you make is this uh
use it in a video or something so the
ultimate aim is to use them is to
to have like 100 original music in
videos but
i use such a wide diverse range of music
in the
in the videos that i don't think that's
possible yeah um
but you have used some bits that you've
made yeah i have in the past
so but that's mostly been guitar stuff
so i would like to
try and to try and um diversify it a
little bit so
yeah i'm trying to make some more like
cinematic type sims where it's not
really like a
song it's more music if that makes sense
um background music so yeah it's good
fun
i mean it sounds awful um
but i think like every one out of ten
ideas is
is a gore so you might hear it in my
videos soon but it's i mean it's not
it's not
gonna make does do we okay so if if we
go away
if if the viewers were to go away and
watch some of your videos would they
know which bits
were made by you tell us in the
description or are you like
hiding it and just yeah everyone figure
it out yeah so
when i do it i credit it i credit who it
was but
uh so yeah i i think whenever i've used
music i've
put that i i made this oh okay yeah
right okay let's have a come on let's
get the smash question out of the way
four again oh it's this one
all right what color
best describes your personality
i would say like off just between like
gray and brown
[Laughter]
very very dark very low saturation
no i would i don't know um like
kim who's behind the camera she you
think i'm colour by
blind right yeah i don't think you see
i don't think i see colors properly oh
okay but i'm not colorblind because
i pass colorblind tests um
but kim can kim can look at two
different colors and tell the difference
between them so
i don't know um
i don't know i don't know how to answer
that question it seems it seems like a
weird question
what would you say for you ah something
like a like a yellowy
like a bright yellow yeah so why why
because i i like to try and be like
positive optimistic smiley
like full of energy try to be
yeah but i am who knows who you're
talking to maybe but
i try to be like that so i guess in my
head i'm sort of
projecting my best self and i am neon
yellow i would say
my i would say my uh youtube uh
personality is like yellow okay yeah
yeah i mean and then everyone's
yes and then as soon as as soon as we
like push stop recording it's just back
to that like like
desaturated gray
all right here we go two all right
there's another general one oh this is
good this is good
um how many u.s states have you visited
how many u.s states have visited oh was
it like a memory challenge yeah
it's not that many so um
new york california montana
that one's rogue yeah the other two are
like yeah yeah
or san francisco whatever california you
can you should edit this better but
milwaukee's a state right
or is that in wisconsin i actually
honestly don't know i think it's in
wisconsin
so whatever wherever milwaukee is that
is where i went yeah let's just do where
have you visited in the us
yeah yeah like i know i'm not great at
states either right where have you
visited in the us yeah no no we can do
states so it's
it's concise it's um new york
california uh wisconsin montana
and florida five nice yeah different
trips
uh yeah yeah well the this wisconsin new
york one was it was a one hour
um holidays work related any yeah just
all all work oh yeah
well i mean we were kind of i suppose we
did go on
that was filed under work
our honeymoon was actually in california
but
just before the honeymoon started we had
a little bit of work to do so we had to
fly out to l.a
and then the honeymoon and then began so
i like that like yeah
take take the do the merge the work trip
into the yeah
it was actually pretty cool because it
was a i had to go for
um like a youtube thing and uh
i remember emailing them typing email
and i was like
i just got married uh and like
two days later i'm gonna have to come on
this trip and i'm not cancelling i'm not
counseling
i'm just saying yeah would you fly out
my wife and they weren't they agreed
um there you go that's yeah yeah and
they put us in the
like the 50 dollar more seats so they're
not they're not first class but they're
they they have um slightly more like i
think it was literally
two inches yourself yeah if someone else
is doing it you're like yeah we'll take
that little tiny little upgrade yeah so
they put us in like a
economy and a half so uh yeah it was it
was nice of them to do that actually
yeah
yeah that's awesome that's awesome all
right we've got to get massive
yeah i don't even know what i'd say for
maths if it was like
oh six again living on the edge danger
okay oh this is this is
my favorite they're my favorite question
bear my mind my wife is here
what's the most reckless thing you've
ever done
probably that rainforest i feel like
we've already had like
going into a rainforest in australia
with no phone
wearing trainers and yeah what's the
water
the most kim what's the most reckless
thing i ever did
yeah and bungee jumping bungee jumping's
not reckless
bought a an e-mountain bike
as in like electric mounted bikes yeah
an electric bike um
nice does that mean it goes like super
fast basically well
yeah it's not actually super fast i mean
it's fast but
it gets you to the top super fast so
then but you're fresh
so then you can go down super fast such
a good use yeah i know it's
fantastic and it's really capable it's a
full mountain bike
um so anyway i was riding it and uh
i was riding on my own and i met a guy
at the top of the hill
um and he was like do you wanna
do you wanna ride down together and it's
safer to ride with people
but but i don't ride with people because
uh
i end up racing yeah
uh you're one of those yeah so so i so i
remember
saying do you want to go first or will i
go first um
and he's like you go first uh so i went
and i could hear him behind me
so i was like oh he's he's like just
want to go quick yeah
so a lot off the brakes a little bit and
he was keeping up and then i was like
letting off the brakes all the way going
as quickly as i can and i could hear him
still behind me
and then and then i woke up in an
ambulance so
yeah i had a really really bad crash um
like smashed my helmet and had a really
bad concussion like didn't know who i
was
um do you like hit where did you hit the
rocketry actually
yeah i actually just hit heather um like
just
but i was going yeah we were really
flying yeah um
so yeah kim was really worried um the
guy like phoned my mum
uh from my phone because he was freaking
out yeah uh
so yeah it was really reckless stupid
thing to do and i'm sorry kim
she's she was wearing the helmet yeah
but the helmet was totally smashed
imagine if you weren't wearing that i
definitely would have died
yeah it was terrible yeah um like it was
like a carbon fiber full face helmet
yeah so
that that was extremely reckless so
those those e-bikes are great but
um you've got to be careful and yeah
yeah yeah i was actually going to do a
video on it to promote
helmet wearing but uh i didn't want my
dad to find out
so make sure he doesn't watch it
all right next one what is your dream
job
uh all right so so before i
got this job um do you get
a job before you became a self-made
youtuber
well well i think to have to call
yourself like a
professional youtuber and that's your
only thing you need to to
survive and and not have another job
so so yeah i would say i i i have
survived
now for four years so i've got this job
um
but yeah i really wanted just a job
where you just don't have to go in
uh like every day or have a traditional
boss
so this is it um but
uh aside from that i've always really
wanted to
to be um like a master
distiller uh in a whiskey distillery
okay well yeah i mean i'm into whiskey
but like not like
i just really think that would be a nice
job uh
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah and make
making something that's so gorgeous and
beautiful that everyone loves
and like crafting away in some remote
place in scotland uh
now you've sold beer yeah yeah yeah i
was like what would be my dream job yeah
yes yeah i mean what is your dream job
oh this this changes like daily i'm very
much like you
in the sense of i think why i do what i
do is
i don't have a boss and i don't yeah so
i teach
but i decide when i teach yeah and like
you know that's
i mean i only found out about your
situation today whether
with what you're doing now and uh this
is part of it yeah yeah
this is uh this is like you said yeah
yeah this is not my job yeah yeah yeah
but you're you're right we have dream
jobs like you actually have the stamp of
approval from the university of oxford
yeah that's true so i mean yeah yeah
like
i've just got my mom saying that she's
she's still proud
of millions she's still proud of me
despite me not having a job
so so i think having like an uh
institution behind you especially one
that's literally a thousand years old
um that's pretty cool yeah oh no yeah
but aside from this
i was like i'm laughing at myself
because
this is clearly just based on what i've
been doing for the last month
so for the last month the the remastered
version of tony hawk's pro skater oh wow
yeah yeah yeah ps4 one and two i'd like
day one they were my games going up yeah
right and i cannot skateboard for my
life
no however right now my dream job would
be professional skateboarder
just so i could like basically live tony
hawk's you know like
because obviously that's what pro
skaters do right they go around shopping
balls
and everything's a ramp you know you
just pop out these
triple 900s you know is it worth getting
that game
obviously yeah yes if you if you played
the i
i i played yes yes tony hawks
they've added in loads of new um
challenges were like speed runs so you
have to do a whole level in under two
minutes like
every goal wow and then you have like
online leaderboards
so i'm like really pleased i got placed
in like the top 200 on one of the levels
that's ridiculous by the way i could
drop like
two million point combos like i played
that much okay
like so skills transfer 20 years later
it's still there yeah it took a while to
pick up you know like
at first i was like yeah and then but
now yeah like you have to learn to
kickflip then
if i'm going to be affectionate you're
going to be yeah yeah did you learn how
to kick
that's that's how this whole thing
started was the kickflips thing gotcha
okay
you should do it i have to learn how to
kick it yeah well i guess my i've i'm
teaching you how to pass the mass
admissions test
this is you basically challenging you
saying to me i'm going to teach you how
to kick flip tom so
you're going to need you're going to
need to wear knee pads shin pads sorry
i did i got slagged off for it but
please take it from me wear shin pads
i think we have reached the point where
i bet this one's a one
i mean that's a two so one look
last question then uh our first one um
maths topics you studied at university
oh well i did engineering um so you must
have done some math so i did some maths
so yeah um so i can remember some
particularly
agonizing courses that contain lots of
maths with
um fluid dynamics okay you're in my
research area
and uh and another course called
dynamics um yeah
so did you have to do like a like a base
sort of like calculus course
or anything like that or was it just
kind of assume knowledge or just
mention in other courses like how did
that i don't think
we did have to do a base calculus course
but i might be wrong about that i have
to check over what we actually did
first year and second year were a bit of
a blur haze
um so yeah uh
but yeah i i remember doing huge huge
calculations
in um fluid dynamics like like massive
massive uh pages uh so yeah
that did a better math awesome
and clearly still still not too rusty i
mean
we'll see again we'll see how you get on
but i think there's there's something
there there's something there's
something there
okay right um we're just gonna do more
mass ones at this point aren't we
i think i think so i mean it's a title
isn't it it's math speed dating
we've just had speed dating so far so
all right this is a math one then
um so do you have a favorite equation
favorite equation yeah um
i always liked bernoulli's equation
okay nice yeah fluids love it yeah yeah
it's a good one
especially when i because i didn't
understand it and then i was one day
i was i was working with it and then i
was like oh this is
equivalent to this and yeah and when i
understood what
hydrostatic head actually means
and how it equates to pressure and
things like that um
i thought that was a neat equation um
so if anyone doesn't know bernoulli's
equation it basically says
pressure plus velocity is constant in
short
when you're on streamlines around an
object that sounds very specific
basically it basically says yeah
pressure plus velocity is constant so
you can think of it in
it kind of it says that if you have an
area of low pressure
um then your velocity must be higher in
order to maintain that constant value
versus an area of high pressure when
your velocity
would be lower and vice versa it's all
to do with flight and drag and
aerodynamics and as you said i'm
guessing this came up in your fluid
dynamics
yeah yeah and yeah it did um
but but i think if if if we had to do
like a more simple less
specific equation it would just be f
equals m a like
classic yeah because it always comes up
like it always pops up it does
and it's and it's like so simple um
yes this is yes it's so simple to say
and yeah encapsulates like
the universe yeah yeah yeah do you say
so simple the equation is simple the
ideas it represents but like you can
really
if you write that down that's a good
start if you're trying oh yeah any
dynamics problem yeah
i say this to my students any dynamics
problem write down f equals m a
figure out what what yeah figure out
what the forces are like that's just how
it works
favorite mathematician um
so i quite like mathematicians like i i
i
i've got a couple thanks yeah you've
just spent the day with one so
uh you can say several if you can't pick
one i'm happy to accept
multiple so i think it's euler
nice that would be my answer because
every time i look at something
interesting it's it's him it's
loyalistic yeah
yeah yeah um so true so true he figured
out everything
uh and not really random stuff um
so yeah uh i i think euler
was the one who um
he he basically figured out e right yeah
yeah euler's number yeah named after him
yep various mathematicians worked on it
and its concepts but it is yeah named
after him
and the way the way he did that the way
the proof for that is
is so nice to watch when someone writes
that out who knows
a number file who knows what they're
doing and limit as n goes to infinity of
one
plus one over n to the power n
lots of ends and also
um there's another there's an object
called euler's disk
um have you seen that it brings about
like a really heavy um
i think it it's on like a parabolic
shape
and you spin the disc and as as uh it
spins
the the edge creates a sum that like
ramps up in frequency so it goes
you know when you drop a coin and it
like spins and then the noise goes
higher and higher and higher yeah
um i'm not sure why it's called euler's
disc i think it's because he was the one
who first described why that
sound uh ramps up yeah um but i also
remember that first time i heard
the name euler and then ever since it's
like everything
everything he discovered yeah it was
busy like
it was busy yeah um so euler yeah right
i i think that's about it mike i think
you've survived
so and didn't rule a one once no single
one you know once again we just had to
resort to
i really need to change it so that maths
is on more than just one
yeah right i think math should be at
least half of the okay yeah all right
thank you
for your uh yeah constructive
constructive criticism
i appreciate it i'm joking no no we like
it
again just thank you so much for taking
time to have a chat thanks for having me
introducing
yourself to everybody thank you everyone
for watching as always
um remember please do subscribe to my
channel if you've
obviously had fun watching this video um
and do check out mike's
amazing channel he learned all kinds of
awesome stuff like we've mentioned
various examples swimming across oceans
i like the glass breaking one when yeah
like that's really cool you should check
that out um right and
again thank you mike and i'll see you
all soon
you